In this video I'll show you how to
organize your views on the screen
using different layouts.
We use the application
Block03 as an example.
In this application,
the upper 30% of the screen
are occupied by a blue section which
holds two buttons: a small button and
all of the remaining space is used
up by another button, a big button.
Then below the blue section,
we have nine buttons
positioned on a rose compass which
is displayed in the background.
Start a new Android Studio project.
Call the application Block03.
Next, Next, choose an Empty Activity.
And Next, and Finish.
This time, we will work only with
the activity_main.xml layout file.
Let's get rid of the default
"Hello word" TextView.
And go to the XML file to change the
relative layout into a linear layout.
You can also remove all the padding here.
Okay, so now our screen
should be divided into rows.
So we need to specify that the orientation
of this layout is vertical.
android:orientation="vertical"
Now the screen is divided into rows.
Let's first define the content of
the first row as a linear layout.
The width of the layout will be equal
to the one of the parent: match_parent.
And here, I'll put 0.
I'll explain to you why in a few minutes.
Okay, that will be our first component,
and
in the second row,
we'll put a relative layout.
Again, the width will match_parent, and
for the height, right now, we only put 0.
We want to specify the height of
each view of the linear layout and
relative layout to match 30 and
70% of the screen.
So I'll say that this layout here,
adds up to 100,
and then I can define that the weight
of this particular layout,
is 30.
And the weight of
this one is 70.
If you go to the design view,
it will be difficult to notice but
if you put your mouse here,
you can see a little dotted line here
that cuts the screen into two parts.
The linear layout here which
occupies 30% of the screen and
the relative layout which
occupies the remaining 70%.
To make the difference between
the two layouts more visible,
we'll add a background
color to the first one.
android:background and
let's use an existing Android color,
like I don't know, a nice bright blue.
Okay, that's more easy to see the
difference between the two sections now.
And for the second section,
we'll put a background image.
In order to do that,
I'll copy an image into
the drawable folder from
the resource folder.
And that into this one, okay?
And now I can use this image as
a background using @drawable and
then the name of the file.
Okay, let's look at the result.
Now I will add the small and
big buttons here.
The small one and
a second one. Let's change the text
on this one so it reads "small".
Let's call it button_small.
And let's change the text on this one so
it reads "Big".
This will be the button_big.
Okay, and
then the height of this button should
match the blue section: match_parent.
Okay, and we want this button to occupy
half of the space which is remaining
after we place this small button.
So we're going to say that the total
width of the layout amounts to,
for instance, 10.
Make it 10.
And then I want that after
the small button is placed,
I want this one to take half
of the remaining space.
It means that I want it to take 5.
So let's say that its width
does not fit content anymore.
It's 0 pixel.
Then instead,
I'll use its weight and this will be 5.
When looking to design view...
that's what we wanted.
Now let's position the buttons
around the compass here.
First, let's put the north button.
I want it aligned with
the center of the screen and
with a small margin separating
it from the top of the image.
Okay, let's call it North.
And that'll be our button_north.
Now let's change its background so
it's easier to see.
Let's pick this gray for
instance, that's fine, okay.
Now let's add the South button, so
the South button is aligned
with the bottom of the parent,
bottom of the relative layout and
it's centered horizontally.
And let's call it South and
the button will be the button_South.
Okay, and let's put the same
background as the previous one.
Now the East button is aligned
with the right of the parent and
it's centered vertically.
button_East,
then let's set the background here.
Let's do the same with the West
button aligned with the left and
centered vertically,
change the background.
Let's add now on the button at the center.
So I want it to be centered
horizontally as well as vertically.
Sometimes it's not really
easy to do it from here,
so I'll move to the text
view in order to do that.
So let's look at the bottom of the file.
So this new button is in
fact the center button so
let's call it button_center.
It's already centered horizontally but
instead of being aligned with
the top of the button West,
I'd rather center it vertically.
Okay, now we need to add the four
more buttons for northeast,
southeast, and so on and so forth.
Let's keep on editing
the XML file from here.
I'll just copy this one and
change a few things.
First, it doesn't read central but
northeast so that would be button_
Northeast, and then I'll change
information about the position.
So I'll specify that
it's located below the button_north,
and above the button_east.
Then it is located to the right
of the button_north, and
to the left of the button_east.
To the left of button_east.
Okay, let's look at the result
in the graphical preview.
I've repeated this process
with the three other buttons.
This is what it looks like.
If I run it on the emulator,
I have the same result.
In this video, you've learned how to
organize multiple views on the screen.
In order to do that, you use layouts
such as LinearLayout or RelativeLayout.
When you use a LinearLayout,
you need to specify its orientation,
whether vertical or horizontal.
And if you want to allow a view to
occupy a fraction of the layout,
you define the weightSum for
the layout, and
then you position either the width or
the height of the view to 0,
and you specify the portion
of the space you want this view to
occupy using the weight attribute.
When you're using a RelativeLayout,
you need to give each view an ID and
then you can position views in
relation to a each other using below,
above, to right of,
plus the name of the reference view.
You've also learned how to
display a background image.
In order to do that,
you first copy your file into the drawable
folder from the resource folder.
Something I forgot to mention in the video
is that the file name should match
the rules for Java identifiers.
that means it should start
with a letter and
contain only letters, numbers and
the underscore character.
Then you can access this file and
use it as a background.
In the XML file using
background=@drawable/ and
then the name of the file
without the extension.
And in the Java file you just use
the setBackgroundResource method and
then R.drawable. the name of the file.